Add documentation (#12)
triplea-game/dice-server-js: README.md

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/triplea-game/dice-server-js.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/triplea-game/dice-server-js)
# dice-server-js
The new TripleA dice server re-written in JavaScript.

## Setup
### Prequisites
In order to be able to run the server you need to have a couple of things installed on your system:
 - `node.js` >= 10
 - `yarn`
 - `postgres` >= 10
After those are installed on your system you can follow the steps below to get yourself up and running.

> The steps assume node and yarn are on the `PATH` of your system, if that's not the case, you need to replace `node` and `yarn` with the full qualified path name to the executable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps assume node and yarn are on the `PATH` of your system, if that's not the case, you need to replace `node` and `yarn` with the fully-qualified path name to the executable.
```

### One-Time-Setup
1. Clone this Repository in a directory of your choice.
2. Open a terminal and navigate to the newly checked out directory.
3. Run `yarn install`, this will resolve all dependencies for you and install them in `node_modules`

> 4. - Generate an RSA key-pair, if you have installed `openssl` and it's on your PATH, you can simply run `yarn generate-keypair`, which will create the files `privkey.pem` and `pubkey.pem` in the current directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. - Generate an RSA key-pair. If you have installed `openssl` and it's on your PATH, you can simply run `yarn generate-keypair`, which will create the files `privkey.pem` and `pubkey.pem` in the current directory.
```

>    - On productive systems you should move them into a "save directory" and (at least on UNIX-like systems) restrict read access of the private key to the user that's going to run the server and root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - On production systems you should move them into a "save directory" and (at least on UNIX-like systems) restrict read access of the private key to the user that's going to run the server and root.
```

5. - Create a file `config.json` which contains all information the server needs to start.

>    - Alternatively those configuration options can be passed via CLI directly or as environment variables, check the [nconf docs](https://github.com/indexzero/nconf#example) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Alternatively those configuration options can be passed via CLI directly or as environment variables. Check the [nconf docs](https://github.com/indexzero/nconf#example) for more information.
```

>    - The config files' Layout will be explained below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The config files' layout will be explained below.
```

> 6. Create a Database in postgres to be used by the Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Create a database in Postgres to be used by the server.
```

I noted both "Database" and "database" used throughout the docs.  I'm assuming that's an artifact from German nouns. :smile:  I think "database" would be more appropriate here, but using a consistent capitalization is probably more important so as not to confuse a reader who may think there's something special about "The Database" vs. "a database."

Ditto for "Server" vs. "server".

Author: Yeah, it's a real struggle every time.
When I actively think about it it's written correctly: `database`.
But when I'm just typing a lot `Database` is simply more intuitive for me 😅

Reviewer: I wasn't sure which way you wanted to go here, so I didn't correct all such capitalizations.  Since it seems like you're okay with "database" and "server" (when not at the beginning of a sentence), could you please do a quick search-and-replace to cover the remaining occurrences?

Author: Will do, but it will probably take a couple of hours: I want to finish all the tests before that.

> 6. Create a database in Postgres to be used by the server.

Reviewer 2: recommend giving the create database command here, or perhaps specify that the database should be named 'dicedb'.

Author: I didn't want to go into database specific commands because they may change without us ever noticing in the future and for the installation process at least vary by system, but I agree that the default database name should be mentioned here already.

#### config.json
```json
{
  "port": 7654,
  "database": {
    "username": "postgres",

>     "password": "",

Reviewer 2: Please correct me if mistaken, but this looks like the default user/password; if anyone can get access to the local machine then they'll be able to access DB. Should we add steps to configure a password?

Author: Yeah of course the default username password combination should be changed.
Ideally one should create a dedicated user that just has access to the dice database, nothing else, but I figured this was clear to anyone that has ever used a database in production, and unnecessary for a database on a local dev environment.

    "host": "localhost",
    "port": 5432,
    "database": "dicedb"
  },
  "email": {
    "smtp": {
      "host": "smtp.provider.com",
      "port": 587,
      "auth": {
        "user": "your.email@provider.com",
        "pass": "super secret password no one will ever guess"
      }
    },
    "display": {
      "sender": "\"Display Name\" <your.email@provider.com>",
      "server": {
        "protocol": "http",
        "host": "localhost",
        "port": 7654,
        "baseurl": ""
      }
    }
  },
  "keys": {
    "private": "./privkey.pem",
    "public": "./pubkey.pem"
  }
}
```
- `port`: The port node.js will listen on. Required.
- `database`: Details about the database connection. Required.
   - `username`: Username to authenticate with the Database. Default: `postgres`.

>    - `password`: Password to authenticate with the Database. Default ` `.

Reviewer: You have the default DB password listed as a single space here, whereas the above configuration looks like it's an empty string.  You may just want to say "Default: (empty)" or something like that.

Author: Yeah, unfortunately I can simply put an empty string into a code block using markdown.
I thought nobody would tell the difference just by looking.

Reviewer: I looked at this again using the Markdown viewer.  I guess a normal person might interpret it as an empty string, but I'm not sure if a dev (who is probably the target audience here) won't take it literally to mean a one-character string.

At a minimum, there should be a colon between "Default" and the "` `".

If you don't like "(empty)" for a value, the sentence "Default is an empty string." could work, too.

Author: I'm going for the latter option

   - `host`: Hostname to connect to the Database. Default `localhost`.
   - `port`: Port to connect to the Database. Default `5432`.
   - `database`: Name of the Database to use, this should be the Database you created in the one-time setup. Default `dicedb`.
- `email`: Settings that are used by the EmailManager. Required.
   - `smtp`: Nodemailer SMTP Configuration, this object will be passed directly to Nodemailer without any further processing. Check the [Nodemailer Docs](https://nodemailer.com/smtp/#general-options). If you need a service to test emails locally you can use [Ethereal](https://ethereal.email/), a dummy email service that doesn't actually sends emails but simulates a fully-featured SMTP server.
   - `display`: Display settings how the server will refer to itself in emails.

>       - `sender`: The Entry for the `From:` field in the email, the actual email should be the correct one, otherwise the emails will likely land in SPAM Folders. Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `sender`: The Entry for the `From:` field in the email. The actual email should be the correct one, otherwise the emails will likely land in SPAM Folders. Required.
```

      - `server`: Settings that define how the Server will refer to itself in E-Mails. Required.

>          - `protocol`: The Protocol that should be used for this server in emails. Default `http`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - `protocol`: The protocol that should be used to connect to this server. Default `http`.
```

         - `host`: The hostname that should be used to refer to this server, ideally a domain. Default `localhost`.
         - `port`: The port that should be used to connect to this server, if used behind a reverse-proxy this should be the public port. Default: `7654`.
         - `baseurl`: In case your server is in a non-root installation, set this to the folder name. (Example `yourserver.com/dice` -> `/dice`.) Default ` `.
- `keys`:
   - `private`: Path to the private key used to sign dice rolls. Required.
   - `public`: Path to the public key used to sign dice rolls. Required.
   
### Starting
In order to start the server run
`node dice-server.js`

> It can be terminated using `SIGTERM`, i.e. `Ctrl+C`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be terminated using `SIGTERM`, i.e. `Ctrl+C`.
```

### Testing
In order to run all local tests and eslint, you can simply run
`yarn test`
This is also the command that will be executed by Travis.

## Routes
The dice server is divided into 2 seperate routers.
The REST Service handles all calls under `/api`.
All other requests are handled by the _frontend_ which basically wraps the API calls with a nice UI.
### API
All of the requests return JSON in the same format.
When successful:
```json
{
  "status": "OK",
  "result": {
    "some info": "some value",
    "other info": true
  }
}
```
`result` is optional, if it's not present this simply means that the server has no additional information for this request.
On Error:
```json
{
  "status": "Error",
  "errors": ["List", "of", "error", "messages"]
}
```
#### Routes
- POST `/api/roll`:
   - Required Parameters (POST Body, urlencoded):
      - `max` Integer. Specifies the highest outcome for each roll, must be <= 100.
      - `times` Integer. Specifies how many dice should be rolled, must be <= 100.

>       - `email1` String. The first email to send the notification email to. This emails needs to be registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `email1` String. The first email to send the notification email to. This email needs to be registered.
```

      - `email2` String. The second email to send the notification to. This email needs to be registered.

>    - Generates `times` random numbers with a value in `[1, times]`.

Reviewer: Should the second reference to `times` actually be `max`?

```suggestion
   - Generates `times` random numbers with a value in `[1, max]`.
```

Author: Yes, took my way too long to write all of this (but in the end revealed some minor problems, which is a good thing), so at some point I must have lost my patience. 😅

   - Result
      - `dice` Integer Array: An array of the rolled dice.

>       - `date` Integer: The current UNIX timestamp with millisecond precision, taken into account for the signature so the signature can't be reused in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `date` Integer: The current UNIX timestamp with millisecond precision. Taken into account for the signature so the signature can't be reused in the future.
```

      - `signature`: The base64-encoded signature verifying the integrity of the rolled dice.
- GET `/api/verify/:token`:
   - `:token` Parameter:

>       - This Parameter is actually a base64 encoded, urlencoded JSON string of roughly this scheme: `{ "dice": [1, 2, 3], "date": 121332, signature: "base64encodedsignature" }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - This parameter is actually a base64-encoded, urlencoded JSON string of roughly this scheme: `{ "dice": [1, 2, 3], "date": 121332, "signature": "base64encodedsignature" }`.
```

      - `dice` Integer Array: An array of the dice rolls to be verified.
      - `date` Integer: A Unix Timestamp of the exact millisecond the original request was made. Important for the signature, and could potentially be used to check if this signature was made with a legacy certificate.
      - `signature` String: A base64-encoded RSA signature that can be verified by the server.
      - Result:
         - `valid`: A Boolean indicating if the integrity could be confirmed.
- POST `/register`:
   - Required Parameters (POST Body, urlencoded):

>       - `email` String: An email a confirmation email will be sent to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `email` String: The email a confirmation email will be sent to.
```

   - A request to this endpoint sends an email to the specified email with a random 512-bit token that is only saved in the RAM and will expire after a maximum amount of 60 minutes.
- POST `/register/:token`:
   - `:token` Parameter:

>       - This parameter is a base64 encoded random number to verify that the person registering the email actually has access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - This parameter is a base64-encoded random number to verify that the person registering the email actually has access.
```

      - If the token is wrong, the actual token automatically expires and a new confirmation email needs to be sent.
   - Required Parameters (POST Body, urlencoded):
      - `email` String: The email to compare the token with.
- POST `/unregister`
   - Required Parameters (POST Body, urlencoded):
      - `email` String: The email to remove from the database.
### Frontend
The _Frontend_ is being served using templates and the liquid format.
The same template engine is used for emails as well.

> Basically all Pages consist of a classic HTML Form that gets replaced with a responsive AJAX system if JavaScript is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basically all pages consist of a classic HTML form that gets replaced with a responsive AJAX system if JavaScript is available.
```

> #### Routes

Reviewer 2: Side-note, if there is a swagger integration, we could potentially be able to save on some documentation and provide a swagger link of a pre-prod server hosting the dice server

Author: Good idea, however it looks like the official integration is not really maintainer very well.
The last npm publish was 4 years ago and the dependencies are marked as insecure.

- GET `/`:

>    - The index page, the page where users can register their emails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The index page where users can register their emails.
```

- GET `/verify`:

>    - The Page the emails redirect to to verify your emails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The page the emails redirect to to verify your emails.
```

   - Parameters:

>       - `token` String: The token to pass to the `/api/verify` endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `token` String: The token to pass to the `/api/verify` endpoint.
```

- GET `/register`:

>    - The Page the "confirm-registration-email" redirects to to press a confirm button in a user-friendly way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The page the "confirm-registration-email" redirects to to press a confirm button in a user-friendly way.
```

   - Parameters:
      - `email` String: The email to confirm the registration for.

>       - `token` String: The token to pass to the `/api/register/:token` endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `token` String: The token to pass to the `/api/register/:token` endpoint.
```

- GET `/unregister`

>    - The Page where users can unregister their email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The page where users can unregister their email.
```
